and 90s, did you all think that your program was playing in the major leagues?
Yes, I think we did.
I think we did think that.
Who else in this part of the United States did you all think we were up in the league with?
I think we consider ourselves comparable to Texas in our programs and with Texas Tech, which has good programs in our area, and with
I believe we thought we were a little better than Houston.
And I think we thought we were about like the other state universities, you know, the major state universities, you know, like Arkansas and Oklahoma
Now you were recruiting graduate students from broader.
Yes, by then we were.
And placing the graduates.
Placing them, yes.
The graduates.
Right.
And it was very competitive.
I mentioned that we took a rather large number in our counseling psychology, but we turned down a lot more.
It was very competitive to get in our counseling psychology program, and that was the bulk of our graduate programs during most of that time.
What about the diversity of those graduate students?
Yes, we were pretty proud of that.
And at one time, we had in our school psychology program
more doctoral students that were Hispanic than there were Hispanic psychologists, school psychologists, existing.
That was a story that went around.
Kind of hard to confirm, I guess, but it certainly was very active in that.
And the competence of the students had increased?
I think so, because they're becoming a little more selective.
But I never was thoroughly convinced that
quality of the students changed a lot.
I always thought we did have good students all throughout, but it was certainly more competitive to get in toward the end of my time.
Now, during all these years, you were doing research and publication of what?
A moderate amount, yes.
On what topics?
on typically on testing measurements or attitudes, which was measurement of attitudes.
I often collaborated with other people and would do the statistical analysis and reporting of whatever they were interested in, you know, like some curriculum matters or things of that kind.
In the department, how was quality measured among the faculty?
Was there a review system merit?
Yes, there was.
Whenever anybody would come up for a tenure or a promotion, well, the faculty would meet on it.
Those of professorial rank would especially.
What about annual, were salaries, were they merit based?
Yes, they were.
And what were the factors that were included?
Well, I think they gave, the intention was to give about equal weight to teaching and to research activities.
Sometimes it's kind of hard to quantify, you know, and often a lot of disputes about that, just how much that was accomplished.
But that seemed to be the intention.
Were there any, during your years, were there any lawsuits, faculty?
There was one time that, let me see.
One student claimed sexual harassment against one of our faculty, but it wasn't really on having sexual contact.
It was more on...
Not giving respect, as much respect for a woman as for a man, or something like that.
And something along that order.
And I remember that I was on the committee that handled that, and it was cleared out of court.
But that was quite a hassle.
But no lawsuits about someone being terminated from the department or anything like that?
There was one student, this actually happened after I was retired, but it named me as well as all the other faculty, because I had been on the faculty when he was in the program.
And he had sued for not being treated right as a handicapped person.
But that was all settled, and I think the university was clear to that.
What were some of your proudest moments, personally?
From all these years.
Yes.
I was very glad when we...
when we acquired some special statistical software that I needed and Lannis and Hope and I were instrumental in getting it.
We had computers but we didn't have very good programs for doing statistical analysis.
And I was proud when we got better computer facilities and especially when we didn't have to carry around those punch cards anymore and could have more convenient input and output from the computer.
I was proud of our, in a way, I was proud of our getting a doctoral program.
It meant a whole lot of extra work for me, and sometimes thankless.
But it was something challenging for me, very challenging.
And I had a large role to play in that.
And so I had a certain amount of satisfaction from that.
Now, did you all have to go before the coordinating board?
Yes, we did.
And it turned out to be a very successful program, you know, on the whole, on balance, I think.
Certainly a large program.
I received several teaching awards, as you probably know.
It was kind of satisfying to get that.
Including?
I received the University Teaching Award for the, I didn't get a watch.
No, it was a, this was a Standard Oil Teaching Award.
And then I got the, received the Former Students Award for Colleges twice.
And then I received something called the Crystal Apple Award.
And then I mentioned that one from San Antonio, and I have several other recognitions like that.
And it all gives you a little lift, you know, when something like that happens.
Any good anecdotes of running into a student in some truly unexpected place who had a kind word to say?
Well, not in the form of an anecdote, but it has happened, and it is a good feeling.
I know what you're referring to, and it is a very good feeling.
Let's see.
What about some important national or international event that you remember exactly where you were when you heard the news that?
Well, I mentioned a while ago that Len Hanna and I remember that we were
on the badminton courts in G. Riley White when Kennedy was assassinated.
How did you hear that?
When we got out of our shower, finished our game, got our shower, and got out on the street, it was a buzz all out on the street.
Crossing the street from G. Riley White to MSC, that's about as far as we got without hearing about it.
Oh, did you hear the president shot?
The president shot.
Art, when I first heard that, I was also stunned because it had happened in Dallas.
Yes.
Me too.
All right.
Well, I remember, too, the one night I was on the way home from a 5 to 8 p.m. class, or maybe even later,
and had the radio on in the car and heard about Martin Luther King being assassinated on my way home from an 8 o'clock class.
We hadn't heard about it while I was in class.
And then toward the end of my teaching career, maybe the last year, I was teaching another one of those 5 to 8 p.m. classes in Little Harrington, Short Harrington.
I gave them a short recess, and when they came back in, they said that we're bombing Iraq.
And what shall we do?
The beginning of Desert Storm.
Right.
reacted to that a little bit as a class.
It was a big class in this case.
I didn't have many big classes, but that happened to be.
And so we reacted to that a little.
I said, well, I guess there's nothing for us to do but go on with our statistics class.
That's what we did.
Let me turn it off.
One time, Lannis Hope had a TV in his office because it was used for instruction and counseling.
They would run videos, you know.
And anyway, he had that TV in there, and
when Reagan was shot, not killed, but shot, we all gathered around that TV and watched that.
I remember that day.
As you look back over all those years, and I'm going to ask the negative, to what people would you give the highest marks for the progress made in the department and in the college?
Who deserves the greatest
Well, I'm going to be slanted more toward the college and the department, because that's what I know most about.
I know very little about some of the other.
But I would say Walter Varvel and Paul Henseling and Frank Hubert and Earl Rutter and Jack Williams.
I think Christopher Borman happened to be real good for us at a particular time.
He was in educational psychology, he was department head, and then he was interim dean for a while.
That was while you were away.
He's now in some kind of dean position at UT San Antonio.
But he was real good and had a good influence on me.
And some people that have had a good influence on me and my teaching and my work have been Jack Campbell, Carl Landis, and Earl Webb.
He was in ag education.
Earl Kniebel, too.
Well, you'll think of others.
I'll think of them, yeah.
Did you ever think about leaving, going somewhere else?
You know, I never did.
I never did think about that.
I just wanted to stay here.
Why not?
I was satisfied and I could see a future in it, you know, and if I wanted to do something else, I thought opportunities were there for that.
I didn't want to do anything else, but I thought even if I did, there were opportunities for other things besides what I was doing.
And I liked the town, liked the size of the town, more then than now, really.
And I did not have much interest in leaving, did not.
Do you think that you and your colleagues generally felt that you were part of something that was happening?
Yes, I do feel that.
Are there, in hindsight now, with the clarity of hindsight,
Are there some opportunities for either the program in the department or the college, were there some opportunities that were missed?
Are there some things that A&M might have done that it didn't do?
Let's see.
You know, I think we could have probably,
Been kinder to students sometimes, made things a little easier for them, make transitions easier for them, and maybe offer our courses more frequently so they didn't have to sweat out getting those courses, things like that.
And I think maybe that we could have offered more courses by having a little larger teaching load than we did.
Are there some other specialties, some other fields in the general area
of educational psychology that A&M should have done?
No, we covered that very well, yeah.
We didn't get into clinical psychology, but the psychology department had that covered.
And did, at the timing of when the various steps were taken, did those now look like they were about
at the appropriate sequence?
Well, I think sometimes it was just a matter of chance or opportunity or, you know, accident maybe.
But looking back, it seems to be a pretty steady pattern.
But I think a lot of times it was just serendipitous that things happened when they did.
Okay, now I've just about run out of questions.
Well, I've about run out of answers.
What topics have we not, have we?
I think you've been very thorough, Haskell, and I've enjoyed it.
All right, let's make believe that someone walks up to you and hands you a check for a million dollars with one requirement.
You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you decide the use that will be made of that gift.
If you could make a major gift to Texas A&M, for what purpose would you want that money given?
Well, I would...
probably give, at least for the most part, an undesignated gift.
I wouldn't want to make those choices because I think others are in a much better position to know the priorities and everything.
I would give an undesignated gift.
Okay.
The last question then.
And part of that is because I do trust the administration and the policies and the, not just the individual administrators, but the links between them and the procedures that they follow.
By the way, I voted against a student senate, I mean a faculty senate.
One of my frustrations with faculty senates is the faculty senate never does anything about the faculty colleagues that don't carry a fair load.
They don't think that's their task.
When you retired in what year?
It was 93.
93.
And was that handled well?
Did you feel good about?
Very good.
What did they do?
Were there any special events, thank yous?
Yes, we did have a retirement party, and it was shared with Art Roach and Landis Hope and myself.
We had a very nice party.
You young guys all together.
That's right.
And it was over in the Rudder Tower, one of the meeting rooms over there, and it was a very nice occasion.
And I'm real satisfied with my retirement benefits.
I was under teacher retirement, and we've been treated very fairly.
Starting next month, we're getting a nearly 11% increase, you know.
And that was not really expected because it's not built in as a cost of living.
So, last question.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
How do you feel about this place?
Well, I am...
I appreciate what A&M has done for me.
It's given me a good place to work.
It's given me opportunities to do what I wanted to do and facilitated my doing it.
I've enjoyed the recreational
things here, being able to work out at the gym all these years and still doing it.
I've enjoyed the athletic events and some of the cultural events, and I made a good living and made a good retirement and raised my children and had a successful career.
I was able to finish a successful career, so I feel very good about it and very grateful about it.